Unit III Data Provisioning and Data Visualization 06 Hours

	Data Provisioning:
	Data warehouse
	schemas
	Data Quality
	Data profiling
	Data enrichment
	data duplication
	ETL Architecture and what is ETL
	Extraction concept and Change data capture
	Transformation concept
	lookups
	time lag
	formats
	consistency
	Loading concept
	Initial and Incremental loading
	late arriving facts
	What is Staging
	Data marts
	Cubes

	Data Visualization:
	What Is a Business Report
	Components of Business Reporting Systems
	Data and Information Visualization
	Types of Charts and Graphs
	Visual Analytics
	Performance Dashboards
	Business Performance Management

	BI Tools: Tableau, power BI, Dundas BI, Oracle BI, MS Excel

Unit IV Data Pre-processing Techniques 06 Hours

	Data validation:
	Incomplete data
	Data affected by noise

	Data transformation:
	Standardization
	Feature extraction

	Data reduction:
	Sampling
	Feature selection
	Principal component analysis
	Data discretization

	Data exploration:
	1. Univariate analysis: Graphical analysis of categorical attributes
		Graphical analysis of numerical attributes
		Measures of central tendency for numerical attributes
		Measures of dispersion for numerical attributes
		Identification of outliers for numerical attributes
	2. Bivariate analysis: Graphical analysis
		Measures of correlation for numerical attributes
		Contingency tables for categorical attributes
	3. Multivariate analysis: Graphical analysis
		Measures of correlation for numerical attributes

Unit V Impact of Machine Learning in BI 06 Hours

	Regression:
	Regression problems
	Evaluation of regression models
	Linear regression

	Classification:
	Classification problems
	Evaluation of classification models
	Bayesian methods
	Logistic regression

	Clustering:
	Clustering methods
	Partition methods
	Hierarchical methods
	Evaluation of clustering models

	Association Rule:
	Structure of Association Rule
	Apriori Algorithm

Unit VI BI Applications, Emerging Trends and Future Impacts 06 Hours

	BI Applications:
	Applications of Business Intelligence in Higher Education
	Healthcare Monitoring
	Logistics and Supply Chain Management
	Customer Relationship Management
	Banking Industry
	Telecommunication Industry
	Manufacturing Industry

	Emerging Trends and Future Impacts:
	Location based analytics for organisations
	Mobile BI
	Web 2.0 and Online Social Networking
	Cloud Computing and BI
	Issues related to analytics


PYQs (reorganized by topic)

-- Data Provisioning & ETL --
Q1) a) Evaluate the impact of Data Duplication on the overall performance and efficiency of a data warehouse [8]
Q1) b) Explain the concepts of ETL Architecture, Extraction, Transformation, and Loading (ETL) in the context of Business Intelligence. [5]
Q1) c) Explain the concept of Change Data Capture and its significance in data provisioning. [5]

Q2) a) Analyse the role of Lookups in the transformation process of ETL. [8]
Q2) b) Create a simplified data mart and explain its purpose in a BI system. [5]
Q2) c) Describe the key components of Data Provisioning, including Data Quality, Data Profiling, and Data Enrichment. [5]

-- Data Pre-processing, Discretization & Exploration --
Q3) a) Evaluate the effectiveness of different methods of Data discretization in improving the interpretability of data. [8]
Q3) b) Describe the significance of Data Reduction in the context of large datasets, and explain the methods of Sampling. [5]
Q3) c) Identify the types of data affected by noise and explain their impact on data quality. [4]

Q4) a) Compare and contrast Feature Selection and Principal component Analysis (PCA) in terms of their applicability and limitations. [8]
Q4) b) Differentiate between univariate, Bivariate  and Multivariate analysis. [5]
Q4) c) Discuss the importance of Data Exploration in the data analysis pipeline.[4]

-- Machine Learning in BI: Regression, Classification, Clustering, Association --
Q5) a) Consider the following dataset and we will find frequent item sets and
generate  association  rules  for  them  using  apriori  algorithm,  consider
minimum support count is 2 & minimum confidence is 60% [9]
TID Items
T1 11, 12, 15
T2 12, 14
T3 12, 13
T4 11, 12, 14
T5 11, 13
T6 12, 13
T7 11, 13
T8 11, 12, 13, 15
T9 11, 12, 13
Q5) b) Define  Bayesian  methods  and  Logistic  Regression  in  the  context  of classification. [5]
Q5) c) List  and  explain  the  key  components  involved  in  the  evaluation  of regression models. [4]

Q6) a) Explain logistic regression with example considering relevant variables and data. [9]
Q6) b) Discuss the principles underlying the Apriori Algorithm for association rule mining. [5]
Q6) c) Define Hierarchical methods in clustering and describe their characteristics. [4]

-- BI Applications & Trends --
Q7) a) Evaluate the benefits and challenges of integrating Cloud Computing with Business Intelligence. [9]
Q7) b) Explain the importance of Business Intelligence in enhancing Customer Relationship Management strategies. [5]
Q7) c) Provide  examples  of  Business  Intelligence  applications  in  the Manufacturing Industry. [3]

Q8) a) Create  a  plan  for  integrating  Web  2.0  and  Online  Social  Networking features into existing Business Intelligence systems. [9]
Q8) b) Describe the impact of Business Intelligence on Healthcare Monitoring processes  and  outcomes. [5]
Q8) c) List and briefly explain the applications of Business Intelligence in the Higher Education sector. [3]
