
Unit 3: 
    K-Nearest Neighbor:
    1. Write a detailed note on K Nearest Neighbour algorithm with suitable
    example. 

    2. Apply K-Nearest Neighbor Algorithm (KNN) on following data. Predict
    the student result for values physics = 6 marks, Chemistry = 8 marks.
    Consider number of neighbours K = 3 and Euclidean Distance as distance
    measure.
    Physics (marks) Chemistry (marks) Results
    4 3 Fail
    6 7 Pass
    7 8 Pass
    5 5 Fail
    8 8 Pass


    SVM: 
    Explain support Vector Machine classification algorithm with suitable
    example.
    What are kernel functions in SVM? Describe the Radial Basis Kernel,
    and Sigmoid kernel.

    Classification
    1. Explain construction of multi-classifier.
        - One Vs. All approach
        - One Vs One approach
    2. Differentiate between Binary - vs - Multiclass Classification.
    3. Differentiate Balanced and Imbalanced Classification

    Evaluation Metrics:
    1. Explain any 4 evaluation measures of Binary classification with example

    2. Write  formula  for  accuracy,  precision,  recall  and  fl-score.  Calculate
    accuracy, precision, recall and fl-score for given example.
                        Actual Values
    Predicted Values    Cancer      No Cancer
        Cancer          45              18
        No Cancer       12              25


Unit 4:

    1. What is clustering? Elaborate Types of Clustering.
    2. Elaborate need of clustering and explain how the elbow method is used to decide the value of cluster k.
    3. Describe centroid based clustering algorithm and explain any one type with example.
    4. Explain K - Means clustering algorithm and states the advantages and disadvantages of k-means clustering algorithm.
    5. Explain Gaussian mixture model with example.
    6. Explain DBSCAN algorithm with advantages and disadvantages.

    7. Explain Divisive Hierarchical clustering (DHC) algorithm with example
    8. Differentiate  Agglomerative  Hierarchical  Clustering  and  Divisive Hierarchical Clustering.

Unit 5:

    1. Explain Following with respect to Ensemble learning.
        i) Need of Ensemble Learning
        ii) Advantages of Ensemble methods
        iii) Ensemble learning limitations

    2. What is the ensemble learning? Explain any two ensemble learning
    techniques.     

    3. Compare Homogeneous and Heterogeneous ensemble methods.
    4. Explain different types of voting mechanisms in ensemble learning.
    5. Explain any three voting mechanism in ensemble learning.

    6. Differentiate the Bagging and Boosting approach of ensemble learning techniques.
    7. Explain AdaBoost algorithm in detail.
    8. Explain Gradient Boosting ensemble learning

    9.Explain random forest ensembles with an example.
    10. Elaborate stacking approach of ensemble with example.


Unit 6:

    1. Differentiate supervised and unsupervised learning with example.
    2. Explain Reinforcement Learning need and its types in detail?
    3. What is Reinforcement Learning? Explain the real time applications of reinforcement learning.    
    
    4. How does the Markov property relate to Reinforcement Learning? Why is it important?

    5. Explain following terms:
        i) Markov Property
        ii) Bellman Equation
        iii) Markov Reward Process
        iv) Markov Chain
        v) Q table
        vi) Q function

    6. Explain Q-Learning algorithm with an example.